ipc: add dynamically allocated buffers to icmsg (#58741)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: samples/subsys/ipc/ipc_service/multi_endpoint/README.rst

.. _ipc_multi_endpoint_sample:

IPC Service - Multi-endpoint Sample Application
###############################################

This application demonstrates how to use IPC Service with multiple endpoints.
By default, it uses the ``icmsg_me`` backend.
You can also configure it to use the ``icbmsg`` backend.

Building the application for nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp
*****************************************************

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/subsys/ipc/ipc_service/multi_endpoint
   :board: nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp
   :goals: debug

> Open a serial terminal (for example Minicom or PuTTY) and connect the board with the
> following settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a serial terminal (for example Minicom or PuTTY) and connect the board with the following settings:
```

> - Speed: 115200
> - Data: 8 bits
> - Parity: None
> - Stop bits: 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Speed: 115200
* Data: 8 bits
* Parity: None
* Stop bits: 1
```

serial port:

.. code-block:: console

   *** Booting Zephyr OS build v3.4.0-rc1-108-gccfbac8b0721 ***
   IPC-service HOST [INST 0 - ENDP A] demo started
   IPC-service HOST [INST 0 - ENDP B] demo started
   IPC-service HOST [INST 1] demo started
   HOST [0A]: 1
   HOST [0A]: 3
   HOST [0B]: 1
   HOST [1]: 1
   ...
   HOST [0A]: 99
   IPC-service HOST [INST 0 - ENDP A] demo ended.
   HOST [0B]: 99
   IPC-service HOST [INST 0 - ENDP B] demo ended.
   HOST [1]: 99
   IPC-service HOST [INST 1] demo ended.

.. code-block:: console

   *** Booting Zephyr OS build v3.4.0-rc1-108-gccfbac8b0721 ***
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 0 - ENDP A] demo started
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 0 - ENDP B] demo started
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 1] demo started
   REMOTE [0A]: 0
   REMOTE [0A]: 2
   ...
   REMOTE [0A]: 98
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 0 - ENDP A] demo ended.
   REMOTE [0B]: 98
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 0 - ENDP B] demo ended.
   REMOTE [1]: 98
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 1] demo ended.

Changing the backend
********************

To change the backend to ``icbmsg``, switch the devicetree
overlay files as follows:

> .. code-block:: console
> 
>     $ west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp --sysbuild -- \
>       -DDTC_OVERLAY_FILE=boards/nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_icbmsg.overlay \
>       -Dremote_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE=boards/nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpunet_icbmsg.overlay

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: console

   west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp --sysbuild -- \
   -DDTC_OVERLAY_FILE=boards/nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_icbmsg.overlay \
   -Dremote_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE=boards/nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpunet_icbmsg.overlay
```

>       -Dremote_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE=boards/nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpunet_icbmsg.overlay

Reviewer 2: Add this to `sample.yaml`
```
  sample.ipc.multi_endpoint.icbmsg:
    platform_allow: nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp
    integration platforms:
      - nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp
    tags: ipc
    sysbuild: true
    extra_args:
      DTC_OVERLAY_FILE=boards/nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_icbmsg.overlay
      remote_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE=boards/nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpunet_icbmsg.overlay

   IPC-service HOST [INST 0 - ENDP A] demo started
   IPC-service HOST [INST 0 - ENDP B] demo started
   IPC-service HOST [INST 1] demo started
   HOST [0A]: 1
   HOST [0A]: 3
   HOST [0B]: 1
   HOST [1]: 1
   ...
   HOST [0A]: 99
   IPC-service HOST [INST 0 - ENDP A] demo ended.
   HOST [0B]: 99
   IPC-service HOST [INST 0 - ENDP B] demo ended.
   HOST [1]: 99
   IPC-service HOST [INST 1] demo ended.

.. code-block:: console

   *** Booting Zephyr OS build v3.4.0-rc1-108-gccfbac8b0721 ***
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 0 - ENDP A] demo started
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 0 - ENDP B] demo started
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 1] demo started
   REMOTE [0A]: 0
   REMOTE [0A]: 2
   ...
   REMOTE [0A]: 98
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 0 - ENDP A] demo ended.
   REMOTE [0B]: 98
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 0 - ENDP B] demo ended.
   REMOTE [1]: 98
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 1] demo ended.

Changing the backend
********************

You can change the backend to ``icmsg_with_buf`` by changing the devicetree overlay files.

.. code-block:: console

    $ west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -- \
      -DDTC_OVERLAY_FILE=boards/nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_icmsg_w_buf.overlay \

>       -DDTC_OVERLAY_FILE_REMOTE=boards/nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpunet_icmsg_w_buf.overlay

Author: It is not done autoamtically by the build system, so I added handling of this varable in Cmake: https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/pull/58741/files#diff-1810cb21049c8e65908e16a8b62cb8c03e98484bbdc00c3511c856e8b3f783acR28

I was following naming of the variable that was already there `BOARD_REMOTE`

- Data: 8 bits
- Parity: None
- Stop bits: 1

Reset the board and the following message will appear on the corresponding
serial port, one is host another is remote:

.. code-block:: console

   *** Booting Zephyr OS build v3.4.0-rc1-108-gccfbac8b0721 ***
   IPC-service HOST [INST 0 - ENDP A] demo started
   IPC-service HOST [INST 0 - ENDP B] demo started
   IPC-service HOST [INST 1] demo started
   HOST [0A]: 1
   HOST [0A]: 3
   HOST [0B]: 1
   HOST [1]: 1
   ...
   HOST [0A]: 99
   IPC-service HOST [INST 0 - ENDP A] demo ended.
   HOST [0B]: 99
   IPC-service HOST [INST 0 - ENDP B] demo ended.
   HOST [1]: 99
   IPC-service HOST [INST 1] demo ended.

.. code-block:: console

   *** Booting Zephyr OS build v3.4.0-rc1-108-gccfbac8b0721 ***
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 0 - ENDP A] demo started
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 0 - ENDP B] demo started
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 1] demo started
   REMOTE [0A]: 0
   REMOTE [0A]: 2
   ...
   REMOTE [0A]: 98
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 0 - ENDP A] demo ended.
   REMOTE [0B]: 98
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 0 - ENDP B] demo ended.
   REMOTE [1]: 98
   IPC-service REMOTE [INST 1] demo ended.

Changing the backend
********************

> You can change the backend to ``icmsg_with_buf`` by changing the devicetree
> overlay files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the backend to ``icmsg_with_buf``, switch the devicetree
overlay files as follows:
```
